# Big Data Analytics in Healthcare Informatics

My Ph.D. work leverages advanced deep learning frameworks to address critical challenges in medical data analysis, such as data imbalance and inefficient feature representation, across various modalities. Introducing innovative frameworks like ***, OCCNet [3], ***, MED-Prompt [2], and *** significantly enhances the accuracy and efficiency of medical diagnoses and predictions. These contributions, deeply interconnected, optimize feature selection, rebalance tabular data, class distributions, and modality balancing, and ensure computational efficiency, setting new benchmarks in AI-driven healthcare. This research promises to improve patient care through robust frameworks by providing scalable and effective solutions for analyzing heterogeneous healthcare data, showcasing a comprehensive approach to overcoming obstacles in medical imaging and prediction tasks. The very first contribution of this Ph.D. was the development of a Systematic Literature Review [1] study on Big Data Analytics in Healthcare Informatics to find out the potential Ph.D. contributions.

#*** Are used to hide the framework's name in progress; either they are being reviewed at some journal/conference or are in the submission phase.

[1] **Ahmed, A.**, Xi, R., Hou, M., Shah, S. A., & Hameed, S. (2023). Harnessing big data analytics for healthcare: A comprehensive review of frameworks, implications, applications, and impacts. IEEE Access.  **https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3323574**\ [2] **Ahmed, A.,** Zeng, X., Xi, R., Hou, M., & Shah, S. A. (2024). MED-Prompt: A novel prompt engineering framework for medicine prediction on free-text clinical notes. Journal of King Saud University-Computer and Information Sciences, 36(2), 101933. **https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jksuci.2024.101933**\ [3] **Ahmed, A.,** Xiaoyang, Z., Tunio, M. H., Butt, M. H., Shah, S. A., Chengxiao, Y., ... & Aziz, A. (2023, December). OCCNET: Improving Imbalanced Multi-Centred Ovarian Cancer Subtype Classification in Whole Slide Images. In 2023, the 20th International Computer Conference on Wavelet Active Media Technology and Information Processing (ICCWAMTIP) (pp. 1-8). IEEE. **https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCWAMTIP60502.2023.10387059**
